# HomeOS - Smart Home Automation System

## Overview
**HomeOS** is a robust, simulation-based Smart Home Automation System built with Modern C++. The core objective of this project is not just to simulate smart devices, but to demonstrate a deep understanding of **Software Architecture**, **SOLID Principles**, and advanced **Design Patterns**. It is designed to be highly scalable, allowing new devices to be integrated seamlessly without modifying existing code (adhering strictly to the Open/Closed Principle).

## Architecture Overview
The system is built upon a strict **Layered Architecture** to ensure separation of concerns and maintainability:

1. **Application Layer (Orchestration):** Contains `SceneManager`, `Scene`, and `Room`. It acts as a Facade, hiding the complexity of individual device management from the user.
2. **Implementation Layer (Concrete Devices):** Contains `SmartLight`, `SmartAC`, and `SmartHeater`. This layer focuses solely on the specific behavior of each device.
3. **Domain Layer (Base Entities & Components):** Contains the `SmartDevice` base class, the intermediate `AbstractHVACDevice` template, and the highly reusable `ThermostatComponent`. 
4. **Abstractions Layer (Contracts):** Contains core interfaces like `IIdentifiable`, `IPowerable`, and `ITemperatureControllable`. This layer enforces the Interface Segregation Principle (ISP).
5. **Infrastructure Layer (Utilities):** Contains the `Logger` class for centralized event tracking and timestamping across the entire system.

### Key Design Patterns Used:
* **Composition over Inheritance:** Demonstrated by abstracting temperature control into a standalone `ThermostatComponent`.
* **Template Method Pattern:** Used in `SmartDevice` (for power states) and `AbstractHVACDevice` (for temperature changes) to eliminate boilerplate code (DRY).
* **Dependency Injection & Polymorphism:** Devices are injected into the `Room` using smart pointers to their base interfaces.
* **Facade & Command Patterns:** Applied in the `SceneManager` and `Scene` classes to execute grouped actions easily.

## Project Structure
```text
HomeOS/
├── build/                      # Generated by CMake (ignored in git).
├── CMakeLists.txt
├── README.md
├── src/
│   └── infrastructure        
│       └──  Logger.h        
│       └──  Logger.cpp        
│   └── abstractions         
│   └── domain            
│   └── devices            
│   └── application            
└── main.cpp                # Contains the core layers and simulation logic
```

### Technologies Used  
- Language: Modern C++ (C++14 / C++17)  
- Memory Management: Smart Pointers  
- STL: vector, unordered_map, function  
- Build System: CMake  

---

### How to Build and Run  

#### 1. Clone the repository  
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Mahmoud-Abd-Elrazek/Smart-Home-System.git
cd Smart-Home-System/
```
#### 2. Create build directory
```bash
mkdir build
cd build
```
#### 3. Generate build files
```bash
cmake ..
```
#### 4. Compile
```bash
make
```
#### 5. Run
```bash
./Smart-Home-System
```
## Author  

**Mahmoud Abdelrazek**  

- LinkedIn: [Mahmoud Abdelrazek](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mahmoud-abderazek-b0786a253/)  
- YouTube: [m_abrazeg Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@m_abrazeg)  


